Adding Land Sector Data Analysis Guide to contributing guidelines (#153)
moja-global/About_moja_global: Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md

# Moja Global Land Sector Data Analysis Guide

## 1.0 Introduction

This document aims to guide contributors to report the analysis of [Moja Global's Land Sector Dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/). 

---

### 1.0.0 The Land Sector Dataset
The dataset is a collection of publicly available [Open source datasets](https://github.com/moja-global/Land_Sector_Datasets) which you can choose any and work on. 

> - Many countries use the dataset and work well in real globe scenarios. For each data set, information about content and licenses are provided. Proper permissions have been cited for all the datasets, and we urge you to follow the license for every dataset before proceeding to work with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Many countries use the dataset and they work well in real world scenarios. For each data set, information about content and licenses are provided. Proper permissions have been cited for all the datasets, and we urge you to follow the license for every dataset before proceeding to work with it.

```

> If you have another dataset on your mind that would be beneficial to [Moja Global's mission](https://moja.global/), please feel free to reach out to us on [info@moja.global](info@moja.global) to share details about this dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have another dataset that you believe would be beneficial to [Moja Global's mission](https://moja.global/), email us at [info@moja.global](info@moja.global) to share details about this dataset.

```

---

### 1.0.1 Data Analysis Software and Notebooks

Notebooks are documents produced by the data analysis software, which contain both computer code (e.g. python) and rich text elements (paragraph, equations, figures, links, etc…). 
>Notebook documents are both human-readable documents containing the analysis description and executable code which can be run to perform data analysis. 

Select software that supports geospatial analysis. 
- Moja Global is an open-source project, and the interest here is to share your process (code) and results (explanation) to support the open-source movement. In order to effectively record your analysis, we recommend that you use a [notebook.](https://sourceforge.net/software/product/Google-Colab/alternatives). 

---

### 1.0.2 Contributing

> When your contribution is ready; raise a PR to have it merged. Please refer to the [community website](https://community.moja.global/community/code-contribution) to know how to make a pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your contribution is ready, raise a pull request (PR) to have it merged. Refer to the [community website](https://community.moja.global/community/code-contribution) to learn how to create a PR.

```

> >If you have experience and want to help, please send an email to [mentorship@moja.global](mailto:mentorship@moja.global). We are open to mentoring new developers and contributors through various mentorship program and initiatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>If you have experience and want to help, send an email to [mentorship@moja.global](mailto:mentorship@moja.global) We are open to mentoring new developers and contributors through various mentorship program and initiatives.

```

---

### 1.0.3 The Analysis

When we look at climate action, we would like to get descriptions from a global scale to a specific state administration within a particular country. A draft review of the characteristics of each file in the dataset is found [here](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/Land-Sector-Dataset-Description/blob/main/Land-Sector-Dataset-Description.md).

> Amongst the numerous factors that affecct climate change, the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the global Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The emissions associated with AFOLU activities are projected to increase in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amongst the numerous factors that affect climate change, Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sectors are responsible for almost a quarter of the global Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The emissions associated with AFOLU activities are projected to increase in the future.

```

> The following sections of this guide will direct you on how to document your analysis at any scale(global, continental, country, state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections guide you on how to document your analysis at any scale (global, continental, country, state).

```

---

## 1.1 Global Analysis

This is the study of the Globe's features, activities and consequences on climate change. Some factors that should guide your analysis include the following. 

---

### 1.1.0  The Globe's Boundary

In the first section of your global analysis notebook, it is suitable to;

1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the Globe with a figure and brief topological description
3. Present a figure with the Globe's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected global changes.
4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the Globe
5. Provide a brief summary of how the Globe's  celestrial location results in climate change.

---

### 1.1.1 The Globe's BioClimatic Zones

Explore the Globe's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). 

> Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in this section by trying to answer the following questions.

```

1. What are the hot zones of the Globe.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which continents/countries/states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on Globe with the given data?

> The files contain more features that should be explited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files contain more features that should be exploited.

```

---

### 1.1.2 The Globe's AgroEcological Zones

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the Globe and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots
2. Dominant soil and related features
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. Water scarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

### 1.1.3 The Globe's Ecological Zones

> Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/). Displaying it reveals interesting patterns.

```
Not sure if this is what is really meant?

---

### 1.1.4 The Globe's Climate

> Explore the Globe's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the Globe's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It is suitable to give brief figurative descriptions of the climate shifts.

```

---

### 1.1.5 The Globe's Land Cover

The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

> Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activitiees such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

```

---

### 1.1.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.1.1** and **1.1.6**. 

In this section, you can statiscally elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

---

### 1.1.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit earth and help control, mitigate and adapt to climate changes.

---

## 1.2 Continental Analysis

If you are interested in analyzing a given continent, then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manupulated(joined, merged, concatenated etc) to narrow down to any continent.

Moreover, there are files that can be queried to display information only for a defined area. Use the follwing characteristics as a guide to analze a continent.

---
### 1.2.0  The Continent's Boundary

> In the first section of your continental analysis notebook, it is suitable to;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first section of your continental analysis notebook, it is suitable to:

```

1. State the aim of the analysis. 

> 2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the  with continent a figure and brief topological description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the continent  with a figure and brief topological description

```

> 3. Present a figure with the continents's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected continental shift in climate and activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Present a figure with the continent's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected continental shift in climate and activities.

```

4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the continent.
5. Provide a brief summary of how the continent's geographical location results in climate shifts within the area.

---

### 1.2.1 The Continent's BioClimatic Zones

> Explore the continents's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other continental inforamtion, filter out the continents you are not analyzing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the continents's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other continental information, filter out the continents you are not analyzing.

```

Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.

1. What are the hot zones of the continent.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which countries/states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on the continent with the given data?
5. What is the population of the continent?

> The files contain more features that should be explited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files contain more features that should be exploited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

```

---

### 1.2.2 The Continent's AgroEcological Zones

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the continent and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots of the continent
2. Dominant soil and related features within the continent
3. Restricted areas from cultivation

> 4. Nutrient availaibilty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Nutrient availability

```

5. Water scarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

### 1.2.3 The Continent's Ecological Zones

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it to reveal interesting patterns.

---

### 1.2.4 The Continent's Climate

> Explore the continents's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the continent. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the continent's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative descriptions of the climate shifts of the continent. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time.

```

---

### 1.2.5 The Continent's Land Cover

The land cover dataset contains interesting information about biomass carbon, forests, forest loss, and land use.

Explore this data set to find the relationship between any activities (such as cultivated land and forest loss, etc.). 

> In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some of the dataset to get the data of interest.

```

---

### 1.2.6 The Continent's Soil Resources

> Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production, nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

```

---

### 1.2.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.2.1** and **1.2.6**. 

In this section, you can statiscally elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

---

### 1.2.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit the people and help control, mitigate and adapt to climate changes.

---

## 1.3 Country Analysis

> If you are interested in analyzing a given country, then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manupulated(joined, merged, concatenated etc) to narrow down to any continent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in analyzing a given country, then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manipulated (joined, merged, concatenated etc) to narrow down to any continent.

```

> Moreover, there are files that can be queried to display information only for a defined area. Use the follwing characteristics as a guide to analze a given country.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, there are files that can be queried to display information only for a defined area. Use the following characteristics as a guide to analyze a given country.

```

---

### 1.3.0  The Country's Boundary

In the first section of your Country analysis notebook, it is suitable to;

1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the country with a figure and brief topological description
3. Present a figure with the continents's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected the climate's shift in climate and activities.
4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the country.
5. Provide a brief summary of how the country's geographical location results in climate shifts within the area.

---

### 1.3.1 The Country's BioClimatic Zones

> Explore the country's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other Country inforamtion, filter out the countries you are not analyzing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the country's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other Country information, filter out the countries you are not analyzing.

```

> Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in this section by trying to answer the following questions.

```

1. What are the hot zones of the country.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on the countries with the given data?
5. What is the population of the country

> The files contain more features that should be explited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files contain more features that should be exploited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

```

---

### 1.3.2 The Country's AgroEcological Zones

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the country and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots of the country
2. Dominant soil and related features within the country
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. Water scarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

### 1.3.3 The Country's Ecological Zones

> Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

Reviewer: See previous revision of the same sentence.

---

### 1.3.4 The Country's Climate

> Explore the countrie's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the country. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the country's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative descriptions of the climate shifts of the country. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

```

---

### 1.3.5 The Country's Land Cover

The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

> In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some of the dataset to get the data of interest.

```

> In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some of the dataset to get the data of interest.

```

---

### 1.3.6 The Country's Soil Resources

Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

---

### 1.3.7 Interpretation of Results

> This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. IScaniScan explains the complex relationship between 1.3.1 and 1.3.6.

Reviewer: IScaniScan?

In this section, you can statistically explain in detail how the various characteristics of each of the above factors affect climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, reference and description to back up your facts.

---

### 1.3.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit the people and help control, mitigate and adapt to climate changes.

---

## 1.4  State/Province/County/Region/City Analysis

If you are interested in analyzing remote geographic areas (such as cities, states, or provinces), then this is the guide for you. The data sets available in the repository (join, merge, join, etc.) can be manipulated to narrow down to any continent.

---

### 1.4.0  The State's Boundary

> In the first section of your state's analysis notebook, it is suitable to;

Reviewer: Colon

1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the state with a figure and brief topological description
3. Present a figure with the state's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected the climate's shift in climate and activities.
4. Present a figure showing the road network of the state.
5. Provide a brief summary of how the state's geographical location results in climate shifts within the area.

---

### 1.4.1 The State's BioClimatic Zones

> Explore the state's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other Country inforamtion, filter out the regions you are not analyzing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the state's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other Country information, filter out the regions you are not analyzing.

```

> Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in this section by trying to answer the following questions.

```

The files contain more features that should be exploited.

---

### 1.1.2 The Globe's AgroEcological Zones

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the Globe and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots
2. Dominant soil and related features
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availability
5. Water scarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

### 1.1.3 The Globe's Ecological Zones

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/). Displaying it reveals interesting patterns.

---

### 1.1.4 The Globe's Climate

Explore the Globe's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative descriptions of the climate shifts.

---

### 1.1.5 The Globe's Landcover

The Landcover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest loss etc. 

---

### 1.1.6 The Globe's Soil Resources

> Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production, nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

```

---

### 1.1.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist between **1.1.1** and **1.1.6**. 

In this section, you can statistically elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affect climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, references, and description to back up your facts.

---

### 1.1.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit the globe and help control, mitigate, and adapt to climate changes.

---

## 1.2 Continental Analysis

If you are interested in analyzing a given continent, then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manipulated(joined, merged, concatenated, etc) to narrow down to any continent.

Moreover, some files can be queried to display information only for a defined area. Use the following characteristics as a guide to analyzing a continent.

---
### 1.2.0  The Continent's Boundary

> In the first section of your continental analysis notebook, it is suitable t:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first section of your continental analysis notebook, it is suitable to:

```

With this in mind, we will be expecting different notebooks which is good since it would be at your convinience and you can reveal insight which has not been previously uncovered.

When we look at climate action, we would like to get descriptions from a global scale to a specific state administration wthin a particular country. A draft review of the characteristics of each file in the dataset is found [here](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Simpleshell3/Land-Sector-Dataset-Description/blob/main/LandSectorDatasetDescription101.ipynb).

Amongst the numerous factors that affecct climate change, the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the global Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The emissions associated with AFOLU activities are projected to increase in the future.

The following sections of this guide will direct you on how to document your analysis at any scale(global, continental, country, state).

> 

Reviewer 2: I think the introduction can be put into subsections:

The dataset, data analysis, notebook, and contributing. [More or less sections if I have missed out on anything.]

Author: Ohh great thank you, I have added the [subsections](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#10-introduction) to the guide.

Reviewer 2: Hey that looks great.

Maybe you could take help of the notes on technical documentation... Since, there are a few documentation guidelines that are to be followed.

Just make the changes commit the changes to this PR.

It will take 2-3 rounds of review and changes but you're doing really well.

Author: Hello @chicken-biryani . I have made some changes, please review it for me.

Amongst the numerous factors that affecct climate change, the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the global Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The emissions associated with AFOLU activities are projected to increase in the future.

The following sections of this guide will direct you on how to document your analysis at any scale(global, continental, country, state).

[**1.1 Global Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#11-global-analysis)

[**1.2 Continental Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#12-continental-analysis)

[**1.3 Country Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#13-Country-analysis)

[**1.4 State/Province/County/Region/City Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#14--stateprovincecountyregioncity-analysis)

> # **1.1 Global Analysis**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **1.1 Global Analysis**

```

This is the study of the Globe's features, activities and consequences on climate change. Some factors that should guide your analysis include the following. 

---

> # 1.1.0  The Globe's Boundary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.0  The Globe's Boundary

```

In the first section of your global analysis notebook, it is suitable to;
1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the Globe with a figure and brief topological description

3. Present a figure with the Globe's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected global changes.

4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the Globe

5. Provide a brief summary of how the Globe's  celestrial location results in climate change.

---

> # 1.1.1 The Globe's BioClimatic Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.1 The Globe's BioClimatic Zones

```

Explore the Globe's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.
1. What are the hot zones of the Globe.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which continents/countries/states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on Globe with the given data?

The files contain more features that should be explited.

---

> # 1.1.2 The Globe's AgroEcological Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.2 The Globe's AgroEcological Zones

```

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the Globe and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots
2. Dominant soil and related features
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. water sccarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

> The files contain more features to be exploited

Reviewer 2: Can you give a link to the files?

---

> # 1.1.3 The Globe's Ecological Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.3 The Globe's Ecological Zones

```

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

---

> # 1.1.4 The Globe's Climate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.4 The Globe's Climate

```

Explore the Globe's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts.

---

> # 1.1.5 The Globe's Land Cover

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.5 The Globe's Land Cover

```

The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activitiees such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

---

> # 1.1.6 The Globe's Soil Resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.6 The Globe's Soil Resources

```

Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

---

> # 1.1.7 Interpretation of Results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.7 Interpretation of Results

```

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.1.1** and **1.1.6**. 

In this section, you can statiscally elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

> # 1.1.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

```

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit earth and help control, mitigate and adapt to climate changes.

> # **1.2 Continental Analysis**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **1.2 Continental Analysis**

```

If you are interested in analyzing a given continent, then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manupulated(joined, merged, concatenated etc) to narrow down to any continent.

Moreover, there are files that can be queried to display information only for a defined area. Use the follwing characteristics as a guide to analze a continent.

> # 1.2.0  The Continent's Boundary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.0  The Continent's Boundary

```

In the first section of your continental analysis notebook, it is suitable to;
1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the  with continent a figure and brief topological description

3. Present a figure with the continents's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected continental shift in climate and activities.

4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the continent.

5. Provide a brief summary of how the continent's geographical location results in climate shifts within the area.

---

> # 1.2.1 The Continent's BioClimatic Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.1 The Continent's BioClimatic Zones

```

Explore the continents's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other continental inforamtion, filter out the continents you are not analyzing.
Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.
1. What are the hot zones of the continent.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which countries/states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on the continent with the given data?
5. What is the population of the continent?

The files contain more features that should be explited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

---

> # 1.2.2 The Continent's AgroEcological Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.2 The Continent's AgroEcological Zones

```

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the continent and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots of the continent
2. Dominant soil and related features within the continent
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. water sccarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

> # 1.2.3 The Continent's Ecological Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.3 The Continent's Ecological Zones

```

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it to reveal interesting patterns.

---

> # 1.2.4 The Continent's Climate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.4 The Continent's Climate

```

Explore the continents's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the continent. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

---

> # 1.2.5 The Continent's Land Cover
> The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
> Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.
> 
> Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activitiees such as cropland and forest lost etc. 
> 
> In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2.5 The Continent's Land Cover
The land cover dataset contains interesting information about biomass carbon, forests, forest loss, and land use.

Explore this data set to find the relationship between any activities (such as cultivated land and forest loss, etc.). 

In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.
```

2. Dominant soil and related features within the country
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. water sccarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

# 1.3.3 The Country's Ecological Zones

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

---

# 1.3.4 The Country's Climate

Explore the countrie's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the country. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

---

# 1.3.5 The Country's Land Cover
The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

---

> # 1.3.6 The Country's Soil Resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.3.6 The Country's Soil Resources

```

Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

---

> # 1.3.7 Interpretation of Results
> 
> This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.3.1** and **1.3.6**. 
> 
> In this section, you can statiscally elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.3.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. IScaniScan explains the complex relationship between 1.3.1 and 1.3.6.

In this section, you can statistically explain in detail how the various characteristics of each of the above factors affect climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, reference and description to back up your facts.
```

> # 1.3.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.3.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

```

Use this section as an opportunity to present possible recommendations on how managing the evaluated factors would benefit the people and help control, mitigate and adapt to climate changes.

> # **1.4  State/Province/County/Region/City Analysis**
> 
> If you are interested in analyzing a remote geographical area such as a city, state or province , then this is the right guide for you. The dataset available in the repository can be manupulated(joined, merged, concatenated etc) to narrow down to any continent.
> .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **1.4  State/Province/County/Region/City Analysis**

If you are interested in analyzing remote geographic areas (such as cities, states, or provinces), then this is the guide for you. The data sets available in the repository (join, merge, join, etc.) can be manipulated to narrow down to any continent.

```

> # 1.4.0  The State's Boundary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.0  The State's Boundary

```

In the first section of your state's analysis notebook, it is suitable to;
1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the state with a figure and brief topological description

3. Present a figure with the state's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected the climate's shift in climate and activities.

4. Present a figure showing the road network of the state.

5. Provide a brief summary of how the state's geographical location results in climate shifts within the area.

---

> # 1.4.1 The State's BioClimatic Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.1 The State's BioClimatic Zones

```

Explore the state's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). If the dataset contains other Country inforamtion, filter out the regions you are not analyzing.

Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.
1. What are the hot zones of the state.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which areas are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on the state with the given data?
5. What is the population of the state

The files contain more features that should be exploited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

---

> # 1.4.2 The State's AgroEcological Zones

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.2 The State's AgroEcological Zones

```

Explore the AgroEcological climate of the state and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots of the state
2. Dominant soil and related features within the state
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. water sccarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

# 1.4.3 The State's Ecological Zones

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

---

> # 1.4.4 The State's Climate
> 
> Explore the state's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the state. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.4 The State's Climate

Explore the state's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from Koppen Geiger and IPCC. A brief metaphorical description of climate change in the state is appropriate. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time
```

---

> # 1.4.5 The State's Land Cover
> The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,
> Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.
> 
> Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest lost etc. 
> 
> In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.5 The State's Land Cover
The land cover dataset contains interesting information about biomass carbon, forests, forest loss, and land use.

Explore this data set to find the relationship between any activities (such as cultivated land and forest loss, etc.). 

In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest

```

---

> # 1.4.6 The State's Soil Resources
> 
> Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.6 The State's Soil Resources

Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display data to determine the relationship between location and crop yield and other attributes. production. NutrientNutrient supply and intensive agriculture, etc.

```

---

> # 1.4.7 Interpretation of Results
> 
> This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.3.1** and **1.3.6**. 
> 
> In this section, you can statistically elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Because it can explain the complex relationship that exists between **1.3.1** and **1.3.6**. 

In this section, you can statistically explain in detail how each characteristic of each factor affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, reference and description to back up your facts.

```

> # 1.4.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.4.8 Recommendation and Conclusion

```

---

# 1.0.1 Data Analysis Software and Notebooks
Concerning the data analysis software or programming language for the analysis, we encourage you to pick a softwate that supports geospatial analysis since you will be dealing with polygon files. 
Moja Global is an open source project, the interest here is to share your processes(**code**) and results(**interpretations**) to support the open source movement. In order to efficiently doucment your analysis, we advice you use [notebooks](https://sourceforge.net/software/product/Google-Colab/alternatives). 

Notebooks are documents produced by the data analysis software, which contain both computer code (e.g. python) and rich text elements (paragraph, equations, figures, links, etc…). 

Notebook documents are both human-readable documents containing the analysis description and the results (figures, tables, etc..) as well as executable documents which can be run to perform data analysis. 
With this in mind, we will be expecting different notebooks which is good since it would be at your convinience and you can reveal insight which has not been previously uncovered.

---

# 1.0.2 Contributing

> It is important to note that when you have your contribution ready, you would have to make PR to have it merged. Please refer to the [community website](https://github.com/moja-global/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Code.md) to know how to make a pull request.

Reviewer 3: Our community website lives here - https://community.moja.global/community/contributing

Author: Thank you @aornugent . I have made the modifications.

# **Moja Global Land Sector Data Analysis Guide**

## **1.0 Introduction**

This document aims to guide contributors to report the analysis of [Moja Global's Land Sector Dataset.](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/). 

> ### 1.0.0 The Land Sector Dataset

Reviewer 4: Give a line break

> The dataset is a collection of publicly available [Opensource datasets](https://github.com/moja-global/Land_Sector_Datasets) which you can choose any and work on. 

Reviewer 4: `open source datasets`

> - Many countries use the dataset and work well in real-Globe scenarios. For each data set, information about content and licenses are provided. Proper permissions have been cited for all the datasets, and we urge you to follow the license for every dataset before proceeding to work with it.

Reviewer 4: `globe scenarios`

If you have another dataset on your mind that would be beneficial to [Moja Global's mission](https://moja.global/), please feel free to reach out to us on [info@moja.global](info@moja.global) to share details about this dataset.

---

### 1.0.1 Data Analysis Software and Notebooks

Select software that supports geospatial analysis. 

> - Moja Global is an open-source project, and the interest here is to share your process (code) and results (explanation) to support the open-source movement. In order to effectively record your analysis, we recommend that you use a [notebook.](https://sourceforge.net/software/product/Google-Colab/alternatives). 

Reviewer 4: `Moja global`

---

### 1.0.2 Contributing

When your contribution is ready; raise a PR to have it merged. Please refer to the [community website](https://community.moja.global/community/code-contribution) to know how to make a pull request.

> >If you have experience and want to help, please send an email to [mentorship@moja.global](mailto:mentorship@moja.global). We are open to mentoring new developers and contributors through various mentorship program and initiatives.

Reviewer 4: Give a space between `>` and `If you have...`

Amongst the numerous factors that affecct climate change, the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the global Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The emissions associated with AFOLU activities are projected to increase in the future.

The following sections of this guide will direct you on how to document your analysis at any scale(global, continental, country, state).

[**1.1 Global Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#11-global-analysis)

[**1.2 Continental Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#12-continental-analysis)

[**1.3 Country Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#13-Country-analysis)

> [**1.4 State/Province/County/Region/City Analysis**](https://github.com/Simpleshell3/About_moja_global/blob/master/Contributing/How-to-Contribute-Land-Sector-Data-Analysis.md#14--stateprovincecountyregioncity-analysis)

Reviewer 4: The hyperlinks should be relative and not be directly referenced through links. If you delete your personal fork, the access to them would be lost.

> ## **1.1 Global Analysis**

Reviewer 4: Give a line break.

> This is the study of the Globe's features, activities and consequences on climate change. Some factors that should guide your analysis include the following. 

Reviewer 4: `globe's`

---

> ### 1.1.0  The Globe's Boundary

Reviewer 4: Give a line break

> In the first section of your global analysis notebook, it is suitable to;

Reviewer 4: Give a colon instead of a semi-colon

1. State the aim of the analysis. 
2. Define the [boundary](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Boundaries/) of the Globe with a figure and brief topological description

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove line break

3. Present a figure with the Globe's [protected areas](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Administrative/Protected%20Areas/) and give a description of how it has affected global changes.

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove line break

4. Present a figure showing the complex road network of the Globe

5. Provide a brief summary of how the Globe's  celestrial location results in climate change.

---

> ### 1.1.1 The Globe's BioClimatic Zones

Reviewer 4: Give a line break

> Explore the Globe's [bioclimatic zone dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/). Fill in this section by trying to answer the follwing questions.

Reviewer 4: Give a line break

1. What are the hot zones of the Globe.(provide a figure with the biodiversity hotspots)?
2. Which continents/countries/states are dorminant/repressive with hotspots?
3. What life is characteristic of the hotspots?
4. What life is going extinct on Globe with the given data?

The files contain more features that should be explited.

---

### 1.1.2 The Globe's AgroEcological Zones
Explore the AgroEcological climate of the Globe and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots
2. Dominant soil and related features
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty

> 5. water sccarcity.

Reviewer 4: `Water`

> 5. water sccarcity.

Reviewer 4: Typo in `scarcity`

4. What life is going extinct on the state with the given data?
5. What is the population of the state

The files contain more features that should be exploited. Identify more characteristics that you find interesting

---

### 1.4.2 The State's AgroEcological Zones
Explore the AgroEcological climate of the state and reveal information about the following:

1. The agro hotspots of the state
2. Dominant soil and related features within the state
3. Restricted areas from cultivation
4. Nutrient availaibilty
5. water sccarcity.
6. Types of protected Areas

The files contain more features to be exploited

---

### 1.4.3 The State's Ecological Zones

Explore the ecological zone [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Bioclimatic&EcologicalZones/Global_Ecological_Zone_GEZ/) by displaying it revealing interesting patterns.

---

### 1.4.4 The State's Climate

Explore the state's climate [dataset](https://datasets.mojaglobal.workers.dev/0:/Climate/) from KoppenGeiger and IPCC. It would be suitable to give brief figurative desscriptions of the climate shifts of the state. What are the key characteristics of the climate and how does it vary over place and time

---

> ### 1.4.5 The State's Land Cover

Reviewer 4: Add a line break.

> The Land cover dataset contains interesting information on Biomass carbon,

Reviewer 4: Wrap this in one single line.

Forest, Forests loss, and Land use.

Explore this dataset to find relationships between any activities such as cropland and forest lost etc. 

In the case where you can't find complete one-file datasets, try merging or filtering some the dataset to get the data of interest.

> 

Reviewer 4: Keep single line breaks between two sections.

---

### 1.4.6 The State's Soil Resources

Soil composition is an important factor that affects settlement and human activities. Display the data, identify relationships between attributes such as locations and crop production. nutrient availability and intensive agriculture etc

> 

Reviewer 4: Keep single line breaks between two sections.

---

### 1.4.7 Interpretation of Results

This is the most important part of the analysis. The whole process comes down to this very aspect of drawing insight from the data. Being able to explain complex relationships that exist betwween **1.4.1** and **1.4.6**. 

In this section, you can statistically elaborate on how the individual features of each factor above affects climate change. Present your opinion scientifically and use your calculations, refences and description to back up your facts.

> 

Reviewer 4: Keep single line breaks between two sections.
